# Content Extraction and JSON Creation

Each development team is free to assemble the content for their Release Notes in any way that works for their team.

The only requirements are:

1. The final content for each individual Release Note must be in a single JSON file.
2. That JSON file must conform to a predefined Release Note schema (see below).
3. The destination API must already exist in XELERATE.
  - See [Entity Publishing](./entity-publishing.md) for details on adding your API entity into Backstage.
4. Details about your publishing pipeline need to be added as an authorized user into XELERATE (by a XELERATE Administrator).


## JSON Schema

When [publishing your JSON file to XELERATE](./rn-03.md) it will be validated against a predefined JSON Schema.

The schema file is stored in XELERATE itself and can be accessed (downloaded) using the **GET /public/static/{path/filename}** API endpoint.

Click the link below to download version 1 of the Release Note Schema:

- [ https://developer.cariad.digital/public/static/schemas/release-note/v1/schema.json]( https://developer.cariad.digital/public/static/schemas/release-note/v1/schema.json)


## Schema Definition (v1)

Version 1 of the Release Note JSON schema defines the required (and optional) fields that you must/should include in your JSON file.

Your Release Note contents will be assembled from the **Pull Request** and from each of its associated **Work Items**:

### Content gleaned from: the Pull Request

| Field             | Description |
|-------------------|-------------|
| `deploymentDate`  | The date & time this PR was merged and deployed to an environment.
| `version`         | The unique version for this specific deployment. <br> Both semantic (ex.: 1.2.3) and string-based (ex.: "April 12, 2024") versions are supported.
| `environment`     | The specific Environment deployed to (e.g.: INT, APR EU, LIVE EU, LIVE ITP, etc.).
| `overallSummary`  | The Description of the overall deployment (from the PR).
| `affectedService` | A reference to the exact name of the entity (API) you are publishing to (ex.: `default/api/acbu-user-management`).

### Content gleaned from: each/all Work Item(s)

| Field                     | Description |
|---------------------------|-------------|
| `workItemTitle`           | Title from the Work Item.
| `workItemNumber`          | ID number from the Work Item.
| `workItemUri`             | URL to access the specific Work Item (ADO, GitHub, Jira, etc.). <br> Primarily used as an *internal* reference.
| `releaseNotesDescription` | Description from the Work Item.
| `commitHash`              | Git commit hash for this change.
| `workItemFlavor`          | For schema v1, must be either: `bugFix` or `userStory`.
| `isBreakingChange`        | Boolean (`true` or `false`).
| `dxpCaseId`               | If reported externally as a DXP Issue or bug, include the DXP Case ID.


## Example ADO Scripts and Pipeline Code

As of this writing, multiple teams from the Automotive Cloud Business Unit (ACBU) are actively publishing release notes to their APIs, with more ACBU teams adopting the process each week.

The ACBU teams have consolidated all their pipeline and scripting efforts and have adopted a single set of templates they use to:

- Define and collect all the necessary variables and parameters.
- Call a set of shared PowerShell scripts and ADO Pipeline templates to:
  - Extract Release Note content from ADO and Jira work items and PRs.
  - Assemble the content into a JSON file which is stored as a pipeline artifact.
  - Publish the JSON to the appropriate API entity using a the XELERATE API endpoint: **POST Upload a new release note**.

Please reach out to an ACBU engineering manager or to a member of ACBU's **Team Shield** to inquire about obtaining working examples of the many scripts and pipeline templates.
