# FAQs, Tips, Caveats

Please consider the current feature set of Release Note Publishing as "Version 1.0". 

The features currently contain only a bare minimum set of functionality.

The Backstage team hopes to enhance and improve the feature set in the near future.

Until then, be advised of the following tips and caveats for this service.


## v1.0 Caveats, Tips, & FAQs

!!! note "Only the `API` entity can host Release Notes"
    The "UPDATES" Menu item is *only* available for API entities.

!!! note "Adding a NEW Release Note"
    Use the [Upload a new release note](https://developer.cariad.digital/catalog/default/api/backstage-public-api/definition#/default/upload) API endpoint (POST /public/release-notes) to add a *new* Release Note entity to Backstage.

!!! note "UPDATING an Existing Release Note"
    Use the same [Upload a new release note](https://developer.cariad.digital/catalog/default/api/backstage-public-api/definition#/default/upload) API endpoint (POST /public/release-notes) to *overwrite* an existing Release Note entity in Backstage.

!!! note "DELETING an Existing Release Note"
    Use the [Delete a release note](https://developer.cariad.digital/catalog/default/api/backstage-public-api/definition#/default/delete) API endpoint (DELETE /public/release-notes/{name}) to delete a Release Note entity from Backstage.

    Remember that the name of each specific Release Note entity is a combination of the name, environment and version. For example: `acbu-mdc-service-INT-9.9.34`

!!! question "Can I add a Release Note for an earlier date or previous version into Backstage?"
    Yes. Any properly formatted JSON file can be published using the [Upload a new release note](https://developer.cariad.digital/catalog/default/api/backstage-public-api/definition#/default/upload) API endpoint (POST /public/release-notes).

    You can manually craft a release note JSON file for any previously released version and publish them to Backstage.

!!! question "What environments should Release Notes be published for?"
    Once your Release Note publishing process is up and running, you should *only* post Release Notes for the INT environment and higher.
    
    You can publish "test" Release Notes to "DEV" environments during your initial testing phase. But these should be deleted once you are "in production"
